## Background: {.main-subtitle2}

<u>**Melanoma:**</u> Melanoma is the most lethal of all the skin cancers and has significantly increased in incidence over the past several decades. When melanoma is diagnosed while still confined to the outer layers of the skin, simple excision is generally curative with 5-year survival of approximately 98%. Unfortunately, despite melanoma being amenable to early diagnosis through simple visual inspection, many patients continue to be diagnosed with more advanced disease. As a result, over 57,000 people worldwide (6,850 Americans) are estimated to have died of melanoma in 2020, despite dramatic recent progress in the treatment of advanced metastatic melanoma.

Melanoma is typically detected by simple visual inspection and is most often brought to medical attention because of a concerning appearance. Although visible to the naked eye, early-stage melanomas may be difficult to distinguish from benign skin lesions, even by clinicians. This has led to many missed melanomas despite a growing epidemic of skin biopsies. The number of unnecessary biopsies varies by clinical setting, the expertise of the examiner, and the application of technology. For example, in children in whom melanoma rates are low and changing moles are common, there are over 500,000 biopsies a year to diagnose approximately 400 melanomas in the U.S. each year. 

The need to improve the efficiency, effectiveness, and accuracy of melanoma diagnosis is clear. The personal and financial costs of failing to diagnose melanoma early are considerable. On the other hand, inexpert screening for melanoma can lead to numerous unnecessary biopsies. Another concern with increased screening for melanoma is the diagnosis and treatment of indolent lesions that cannot currently be distinguished from potentially lethal cancers. This latter scenario is referred to as ‘overdiagnosis’ and raises concerns about democratizing access to automated mobile diagnostic systems in populations at low risk of dying from melanoma.

<u>**Digital imaging and AI for melanoma diagnosis:**</u>  
*Clinical imaging:* Dermatologists who specialize in skin cancer routinely employ total body photography and dermatoscopy as diagnostic tools for the detection and diagnosis of melanomas. Total body photography permits the early detection of changing lesions and avoidance of biopsy of stable lesions. Dermatoscopes, simple hand-held devices that eliminate surface glare and magnify structures invisible to the “naked eye”, significantly improve the distinction of melanomas from other skin lesions. When used by skin cancer specialists, total body photography and dermoscopy make it possible to detect melanoma very early in its evolution, while decreasing the number of unnecessary biopsies. In clinical trials, training in dermoscopy or sequential imaging led to improvements in early detection of melanoma for both non-specialist dermatologists and primary care physicians. Specialized systems for image acquisition, storage, and retrieval have been developed for physicians to facilitate total body photography and digital dermoscopic monitoring. The adoption of these technological aids in clinical practice has been slow due to cost and inconvenience. This is beginning to change due to the mobile revolution, as smart phone based digital cameras and dermatoscopes are entering the professional market.
*Teledermatology:* The general availability of mobile smartphone devices has also brought digital imaging for melanoma diagnosis into the realm of telemedicine. While already on the rise prior to the COVID pandemic, teledermatology volume has recently increased exponentially. The opportunity for direct to consumer tele-consultation for concerning lesions holds great promise for improving access to care, but the often poor quality and inconsistency of patient-acquired images pose a considerable challenge. 

*Direct to Consumer Apps:* While consumer apps to educate and aid in melanoma detection are an exciting and promising new development, the first generation apps have been deployed with limited, if any, clinical testing. The availability of inaccurate self-diagnosis apps may lead to delay a consultation with a clinician. Indeed, multiple studies of the accuracy of these apps endorse this concern. As the apps have been trained on data from narrow demographic segments of the population, there is also a concern that their accuracy will be far lower in the broader population. 

*Regulatory oversight:* There has been little oversight of the clinical use of digital images in Dermatology. Despite being a visual specialty, there are no requirements of dermatologists to use images to document clinical encounters, let alone to ensure the quality and consistency of such documentation. The cameras and imaging systems used in clinical practice are deemed inherently ‘safe’ and no minimal technical requirements have been established. There has, however, been considerable attention given to automated diagnosis. As of February 9th 2015, the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) assumed responsibility for regulation of consumer diagnostic apps and on February 23, 2015 the FTC (Federal Trade Commission) fined app makers for false advertising. In 2019, the FDA released a discussion paper proposing a regulatory framework for modifications to AI/ML-based SaMD (Software as a Medical Device). On May 25, 2017,  the EU released Regulation 2017/745 on medical devices (MDR) and on February 19, 2020, the European Commission published a White Paper to promote a European ecosystem of excellence and trust in AI, a data strategy communication, and a report on the safety and liability aspects of AI.
