## Goals of ISIC {.main-subtitle2}

The primary clinical goal of ISIC is to support efforts to reduce melanoma-related deaths and unnecessary biopsies by improving the accuracy and efficiency of melanoma early detection. To this end, ISIC is developing proposed digital imaging standards and engaging the dermatology and computer science communities to improve diagnostic accuracy with the aid of AI. While the initial focus of the ISIC collaboration is on melanoma, the goals being pursued by ISIC are critical to advancing the broader landscape of skin imaging and artificial intelligence in Dermatology; including non-melanoma skin cancer and inflammatory dermatoses.

**To promote the development and adoption of digital skin imaging standards:** The proliferation of dermatologic imaging has evolved without benefit of dermatology specific DICOM (Digital Communication) standards as exist for other medical specialties. This has resulted in part due to the absence of a dedicated dermatologic imaging industry, as most dermatologic photography can be accomplished with ‘off-the-shelf’ equipment. The more recent ‘mobile’ technology era has further complicated the ability to set technical standards that can keep up with the rapid changes in the technologies.
In both the medical and public realms, the optimal use of images for education, diagnosis, tele-diagnosis, patient triage, mole monitoring, documentation, and coordination of care will all benefit from the development of standards to help to ensure Quality, Privacy, and Interoperability:  
- <u>Quality:</u> While there may be subtle differences in the quality needed for different applications (e.g., diagnosis v. documentation), images failing to meet minimal quality (e.g., spatial resolution, color accuracy, clarity of focus) will undermine their clinical utility.
- <u>Privacy:</u> As in all other medical applications, standards are needed to ensure the privacy of the personal health information associated with dermatology images. The nudity associated with overview dermatology images adds an additional privacy concern.
- <u>Interoperability:</u> To optimize the usefulness of dermatologic images, standards are needed to ensure that images and their associated ‘metadata’ can be effectively shared between systems, patients, and providers.


To develop recommendations for standards that will improve quality, privacy, and interoperability for dermatologic images, ISIC is working with stakeholders to address each of the following domains:  
- <u>Technology Standards:</u> The ubiquitous availability of off-the-shelf digital cameras and ‘smart’ phones has promoted wider use of imaging for lesion assessment and documentation while introducing considerable technologic diversity. Standards are needed to ensure adequacy and compatibility of these images as relates to resolution, processing, technical metadata, compression, and encryption.
- <u>Technique Standards:</u> Standard approaches to patient and lesion identification, documentation of lesion attributes, and image acquisition (e.g., poses, orientation, lighting, magnification, use of size and color calibration markers, etc.) will help ensure image quality, data integrity, and image comparability.
- <u>Terminology Standards:</u> Considerable variability exists in the application of specific terms to describe anatomic sites, diagnoses, and clinical, dermoscopic. and histologic morphology. A lexicon of standardized terminology will facilitate teaching, content-based-image-retrieval, and consistent ground truth for training and implementing AI algorithms.
- <u>Metadata:</u> Data elements associated with or embedded in images relate to the subject of the image (e.g., demographics, diagnosis, morphology), technical details (e.g., capture device, settings, etc.) and technique details (e.g., poses, orientation, etc.). Standardized collection and representation of the data elements associated with an image impacts the usefulness and interoperability of the images.
- <u>Privacy:</u> Patient/subject privacy is a paramount concern in all medical applications. In addition to privacy of the metadata associated with images, the images themselves can contain identifiable elements that risk a breach of privacy. Standards that help to ensure maintenance of privacy and appropriate consent for use and sharing of images and their associated metadata are needed.

**To promote the use of digital skin images for education and AI assisted diagnosis:** ISIC is creating resources for the dermatology and computer science communities, including a large and expanding open source public access archive of skin images \([Goals of the Archive](#!/topWithHeader/tightContentTop/about/isicArchiveGoals)\). This archive serves as a public resource of images for teaching, research, and for the development and testing of diagnostic artificial intelligence algorithms. ISIC is engaging the stakeholder communities through meetings, publications, conferences, and the hosting of artificial intelligence Grand Challenges.  

- <u>[ISIC Archive](#!/topWithHeader/tightContentTop/about/isicArchiveGoals):</u>  ISIC has developed an open source platform for the contribution of images of skin lesions under Creative Commons licenses. The images are associated with ground-truth diagnoses and other clinical metadata and available for use in the public domain. Images can be queried using faceted search and downloaded individually or in batches. The initial focus of the archive has been on dermoscopy images of individual skin lesions, as these images are inherently standardized by the use of a specialized acquisition device and devoid of many of the privacy challenges associated with clinical images. To date, the images have been provided by specialized melanoma centers from around the world. The archive is designed to accept contributions from new sources under the [ISIC Terms of Use agreement](#!/topWithHeader/tightDarkContentTop/termsOfUse) and welcomes new contributors. There are ongoing efforts to supplement the dermoscopy images in the archive with close up clinical images and a broader representation of skin types.  
- <u>[Grand Challenges](#!/topWithHeader/tightContentTop/about/isicChallengesGoals):</u> Beginning in 2016, ISIC has sponsored annual challenges for the computer science community in association with leading computer vision conferences. Over the years, the challenges have grown in scale, complexity, and participation. The earlier challenges were focused primarily on diagnostic accuracy for distinguishing melanoma from other benign and malignant skin lesions. By 2018, the diagnostic performance of the leading algorithms was consistently outperforming clinicians in ‘reader studies’. Additional challenges in 2019 and 2020 were designed to address the out-of-distribution problem and assess the impact of clinical context, respectively. The 2020 challenge had 3,300 participants from around the world. In addition to the annual Grand Challenges, ISIC hosts ‘live challenges’ that allow researchers and students to benchmark the performance of their algorithms using ISIC images on an ongoing basis. 
- <u>[Publications](#!/topWithHeader/tightContentTop/about/isicPublications):</u>  ISIC working groups publish the results of their efforts in clinical and scientific journals and have hosted several special issues in prominent imaging journals. To date there have been over 1,000 publications in the scientific literature that derive directly from ISIC or rely on ISIC data.
- <u>[Meetings, Conferences, and Workshops](#!/topWithHeader/tightContentTop/about/isicMeetingsWorkshops):</u>  The working groups meet individually on a regular basis and the entire collaboration holds regular meetings twice a year. ISIC regularly hosts workshops on skin imaging at the leading vision science meetings including ISBI, MICCAI, and CVPR and major clinical meetings including the American Academy of Dermatology Annual Meeting. In conjunction with ISIC, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center holds an annual conference titled Transforming Dermatology in the Digital Era. 
