## Overview of the ISIC Collaboration: {.main-subtitle2}

The International Skin Imaging Collaboration (ISIC) is an academia and industry partnership designed to facilitate the application of digital skin imaging to help reduce melanoma mortality. When recognized and treated in its earliest stages, melanoma is readily curable. Digital images of skin lesions can be used to educate professionals and the public in melanoma recognition as well as directly aid in the diagnosis of melanoma through tele-dermatology, clinical decision support, and automated diagnosis. ISIC works to achieve its goals through the development and promotion of standards for digital skin imaging and by engaging the dermatology and computer science communities toward improved diagnostics. Currently, a lack of standards for dermatologic imaging undermines the quality and usefulness of skin lesion imaging. ISIC is developing proposed standards to enhance the quality, privacy and interoperability (i.e., the ability to share images across technology and clinical platforms) of digital skin images. ISIC is creating resources for the dermatology and computer science communities, including a large and expanding open source public access archive of skin images \([Goals of the Archive](#!/topWithHeader/tightContentTop/about/isicArchiveGoals)\). This archive serves as a public resource of images for teaching, research, and for the development and testing of diagnostic artificial intelligence algorithms. ISIC is engaging the stakeholder communities through meetings, publications, conferences, and the hosting of artificial intelligence Grand Challenges.  

ISIC is organized into Working Groups covering the areas of skin imaging Technologies, Techniques, Terminology, Privacy, DICOM Standards, Education, 
and Artificial Intelligence \([Technology Working Group](#!/topWithHeader/tightContentTop/about/workingGroupsTechnology)\). There have been hundreds of publications to date in the medical and scientific literature that are direct products of ISIC projects and challenges \([ISIC Publications](#!/topWithHeader/tightContentTop/about/isicPublications)\). ISIC has held many meetings, conferences, and workshops at some of the most prestigious computer vision congresses (e.g., ISBI, MICCAI, CVPR, etc) \([ISIC Working Group Meetings](#!/topWithHeader/tightContentTop/about/isicPublications)\). The ISIC Grand Challenges have been run annually since  2016 and have grown in size, complexity, and impact over time. The 2020 challenge had over 3,300 participants from around the world and resulted in hundreds of new reports in the computer science literature.\([Goals of the Challenges](#!/topWithHeader/tightContentTop/about/isicChallengesGoals)\).

While the initial focus of the ISIC collaboration is on melanoma diagnosis, the goals being pursued by ISIC are critical to advancing the broader landscape of skin imaging and artificial intelligence in Dermatology, including non-melanoma skin cancer and inflammatory dermatoses.

ISIC is run under the auspices of Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center and supported by generous philanthropic contributions \([Sponsors and Partners](#!/topWithHeader/tightContentTop/about/aboutIsicSponsorsAndPartners)\) and in-kind support from its members.
